# Intro 

This tutorial shows you how to use DJango, HTMX, Tailwind, Playwright and AlpineJS to build a todo app. Because the world needs another todo list app. We all have stuff to do.

## Self-paced 

It would be useful to have everyone start at the same time so we can set the scene. But once we have begun, please move at your own pace! 

Remember that this is not a race! 

## Getting the most out of this tutorial

The more you are able to engage with the materials, the more it will stick and the more useful this will be.

If learning feels easy then you might not be learning much. Lean into the hard parts. 

Here are a few recommendations on how to make the most of this:

### 1. Choose your own adventure

You can follow this tutorial exactly and copy/paste the code into the right places. You will get something out of doing that. You will get familiarity.

But if you want more, if you want to retain the ideas and have a more engaging experience, then it's useful to get off the beaten track.

Try to pick a project to work on that is your own. If you are new to this career then this could turn into a portfolio project. Or maybe there is a fun side project you have been thinking about. 

There is a list of project ideas in the file: [Appendix: Project ideas](./Appendix:%20Project%20ideas.md) 

If you are not sure what to choose right now, wait until after the section about CRUD.

### 2. Indulge in side quests 

This tutorial is not the perfect source of all knowledge. It's a guide. We will not be deep-diving into every concept along the way. Some people might want some deep dives though.

If you come across something you don't understand, take the time to understand it. Ask questions if you need to. This is not a race to the finish. Learning takes time.

## Contributions welcome

If you see something that is out of place, missing or unclear then feel free to fix things. If you are not able to fix it yourself, then say something about it!

## Prerequisite knowledge 

This tutorial is not designed for people who are completely new to programming. That said, if you are new and you have found yourself here it's totally fine! There are a few learning resources listed below that you can go through. 

Here are a few recommendations on things you can start with:

First, get a bit of an understanding of how the internet works and how these technologies fit together: 

- Get a big picture of how the internet works [here](https://www.sheenaoc.com/articles/2024-06-22-anatomy-of-a-web-app-00-toc)
- To see why HTMX is exciting, read [this](https://www.sheenaoc.com/articles/2024-06-30-htmx). It does mention quite a few funny technologies, but try to think about how they fit in with the big picture picture from above

You will need to install Python. This can be googled. Get the latest stable version.

It would be useful if you knew some Python. The main concepts you will need are:

- variables
- flow control (loops, if statements)
- functions
- classes 
- all prerequisite knowledge for the above 

You don't need to be a super expert in Python for this tutorial.

[Here](https://www.reddit.com/r/learnpython/wiki/books/) is a giant list of books and resources. Try one out. If you don't like that one, try another. 

It would be interesting to know what works for you. 
