# Your first app 

In the last step, you made a Django Project. Now you'll make an app inside that project. I've named my app "todos". You can name yours something else.

```
python manage.py startapp todos
```

This will make a whole lot of new files and directories.

## Whaaat?

This is something that can get confusing at first. Why do we have to have a project and an app?

Django was built with modularity in mind. Apps are packages and they can be independently developed and published (and reused in different projects). An app contains application functionality.

A project is a collection of configuration and apps. 

On smaller projects (like this tutorial) it can feel a bit weird and clunky because the project has one responsibility and the app has the same responsibility. But on bigger projects, apps make a lot more sense. Django is built for scale - apps help us organise code and manage complexity.

## Update the settings

Go to your project's `settings.py` file. Now add your app to the `INSTALLED_APPS` list.

Eg:
```
INSTALLED_APPS = [
    "todos",    # <<<<<<<<<  new line. Put your app there
    "django.contrib.admin",
    "django.contrib.auth",
    "django.contrib.contenttypes",
    "django.contrib.sessions",
    "django.contrib.messages",
    "django.contrib.staticfiles",
]
```

## Hello URLs and Views 

In your new app, you'll see a file named `views.py`

Paste this in and save the file:

```
from django.http import HttpResponse

def home(request):
    return HttpResponse("Hello world")
```

Now make a new file in your app called `urls.py`. This file should be in the same directory as the views.py file you just worked with.

Now we need to wire things up so that the project knows about the new url configuration.

Go to your project's main configuration file. It'll already have a bunch of stuff written in there.

Edit it so it is more like this:

```
from django.contrib import admin
from django.urls import include, path  # Changed

urlpatterns = [
    path("", include("todos.urls")),  # new line. Use your own app name
    path("admin/", admin.site.urls),
]
```

Refresh the webpage and you'll now see your hello-world page.

# Extra resources

You can learn more about url configuration here: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.1/topics/http/urls/

You don't need to be a url configuration ninja to complete this tutorial.

