# Tailwind 

If you run `runserver` and take a look at your website, it'll be quite plain and ugly. 

Let's spice things up with Tailwind.

Add the following into the `head` of your index.html file:

```
<script src="https://cdn.tailwindcss.com"></script>
```

Now refresh your page. You'll notice that things look a little different. Tailwind baselines all the styles so you can build up from a good foundation.

Let's add some style. Update your index.html page so it looks like this:

```
<html lang="en">

<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>Things to do</title>
    <script src="https://cdn.tailwindcss.com"></script>

</head>

<body>
    <div class="mx-auto max-w-7xl sm:px-6 lg:px-8 space-y-4 pt-4">

        <h1 class="text-2xl font-bold leading-7 text-gray-900 sm:truncate sm:text-3xl sm:tracking-tight">Things to do
        </h1>


        <div class="text-center text-2xl font-bold text-transparent/30 pt-6">
            Nothing to see here...
        </div>

    </div>
</body>

</html>
```

Now refresh your page. It looks much better, right?

## Make it pretty 

This is a good time to play with Tailwind for a bit. This is not critical at this point but it could be nice for you to get a feel for what it can do. 

You can find the docs [here](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/utility-first).

Try tweak things and see what you can change. Change the heading size, the colour, whatever you want.

You are welcome to ask an LLM for support on this. 

## Side quest: Auto refresh 

You'll notice that as you change things you need to manually refresh your browser to see what you have done. This is tedious. 

This package makes life much easier:

https://github.com/adamchainz/django-browser-reload

## Another side quest 

The way we installed Tailwind is not the best. It's alright for a development environment and it works fine, but it is not recommended in production because the file at `https://cdn.tailwindcss.com` is large and full of terrors (I mean, it's slow).

See if you can follow the installation instructions on the tailwind website. The "CLI" installation is fairly straightforward (if a little weird for us Python devs). It's a nice way to install it because it gives you direct access to some of Tailwind's configuration options.

