# What are we building 

At this point, if this is a live event, your instructor should take you though a demo and introduce the different technologies. 

You are also welcome to watch this video. This demo gives a tour of the technologies we are using. 

Most of them anyway.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/limx6x6-D9Q?si=MWh7nL8sYxB0oVQ3&amp;start=2987" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

And this one focuses on the testing part.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/rrliP18nIig?si=Az8zfYcKSOYoASo1" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## CRUD 

CRUD stands for Create, Read, Update, Delete. 

Most of the Internet is pretty CRUDDY. If you can wrap your head around CRUD then you can achieve a lot.

### C == Create 

In the demo TODO list app, we submit a form to Create a new item in the database.

When Creating items you generally make use of HTTP POST requests. Making use of the incorrect HTTP verb won't break your application. But it might make it a bit confusing for humans. 

Using the right HTTP request verb for the job is a convention we follow. There are also occasional security concerns (you'll meet CSRF tokens a little later on).

### R == Read

In the demo app, we Read by getting a list of todo items. This is typically done using a GET request.

### U == Update 

In the demo we use PUT requests to mark items as Done or not done. 

You can also update things by filling in forms or interacting with them in different ways.

### D == Delete 

This makes use of the DELETE HTTP verb.

## Choose your own adventure 

Now would be a good time to think about a thing you would like to build. Keep it simple for now and try to follow along with the tutorial. You can always expand on things later on.
