# Template partials 

In our application we have one page (represented by index.html) and one partial template. 

This is a very simple application. 

Imagine how weird things will get if we had 5 pages, and each page had 5 partials associated with it. 

- your templates directory would be very noisy, it would be hard to know what partial is associated with what page unless you organised your stuff very carefully 
- you would need to be aware of the organising strategy every time you created a new view function 

If you are working on a project by yourself then this might be fine, but one of the arguments against HTMX is that this kind of complexity doesn't scale well. It has a habit of turning into spaghetti.

## Django template partials saves the day

Take a look at this: https://github.com/carltongibson/django-template-partials 

## Let's put your partial template inside your index.html file 

First of all, follow the instructions inside the repo above and get the django-template-partials package installed.

Now, go to your index.html file and add the following:

```
{% load partials %}

{% partialdef todo-item %}

 <!-- copy-paste the contents of partial_todo_item.html here -->

{% endpartialdef todo-item %}
```

Now delete `partial_todo_item.html`.

Your code is now broken :) It expects there to be a template called `partial_todo_item.html`, but we moved that code.

## Get the code to work again

You'll now need to go find all the parts of your code that reference `partial_todo_item.html` and update them to use the partial instead. 

The docs on the `django-template-partials` do a good job of explaining how to do that. 

When you think you are done, run your tests and make sure everything passes.

